# Diabet-Prediction-
In this project I applied all the prediction models methods on the Diabetic dataset from UCI repository.
#Initially, I performed some data cleaning and preprocessing steps on the dataset. after that I end up containing 45 predictors and 289 observations. I dropped variables that contained missing values, such as weight or the ones that didn't contain any special information like some ids.Moreover, removed rows with missing values.

#Next, I bucketized the diagnostic columns based on a provided table and transformed all categorical variables into dummy variables. I then split the data into test and train sets , and subsequently scaled the entire dataset to prevent overshadowing effects. While I tried using PCA for dimensionality reduction, the presence of dummy variables caused that  20 principal components could cover 80% of the data, leading to only limited dimensionality reduction. Nonetheless, I kept the PCA data for evaluating the model performance.
 
#To evaluate the performance of the supervised learning models, I applied them to both the PCA and non-PCA datasets, and employed 5-fold cross-validation. As the outcome variable was not imbalanced, I considered accuracy evaluation metrics for comparing the models.As well as AUC and Kappa. For checking which same models fit better to data like evaluating several logestic rigressions I compare their Akaike as well.
#After comparing the performance of various models, I found that the KNN model performed best on the non-PCA dataset with an AUC of 0.7696 and a precision of 73%. Although my best model(KNN) is based on Euclidean distance and it is hard to say which predictor was more important or play more important role in predicting the readmition of the patient, Based on other models like random forest2(accuracy 72% and AUC 69%) and logestic2 regression (accuracy 65%, AUC 71%) I found "Number of lab procedures " and "time in hospitals" important variables 
